## Chana

![Chana](Chana.png)
Chana grew up amongst the horse archers of the great steppes. They say
she spent a year amongst the nixies of the Nieper river.

These days she lives on Elephant Hill where giant bones reach towards
the sky and the area around her tower of fur and bones is covered in
skulls on poles, each skull marked with runes naming the dead and the
circumstances of their death, the importance of their family and the
provenance of their clan.

The river Dorn flows around three quarters of the Elephant Hill and
its dragon protects Chana and the people living there with her.

### Treasure

The *locke of Miranda* turns you invisible to aquatic creatures when
you weave it into your hair. You cannot speak during this time, but
only make incoherent sounds.

### The Book of the Water Dragon

**Charm person** (1) affects a single target, save vs. spells to
resist. To break free, victims save again every day if their
intelligence is 13 or better, every week if their intelligence is
average, or every month if their intelligence is 8 or lower. While
charmed, victims treat you as their best friend. Once victims break
free, they remember everything they did and if they did anything they
would not have ordinarily have done, they react with shame and anger.
Charms usually cause severe emotional distress!

**Song of the water dragons** (1). Every river has a water dragon
protecting it. Singing this song summons the dragon: HD 9 AC 0
1d8/1d8/3d10 F9 ML 9 MV 24 XP 3100; lightning bolts for 9d6, save for
half. The dragon speaks the language of the locals but is not
interested in performing any services. It is always interested in
acquiring more treasure, though. Unless you strike a deal, the dragon
takes the treasure of anybody present for the mere act of calling it.

**Water walking** (1) enables a target to walk on liquids for 20min.
Usually, this means water, but it might also be lava or quicksand.
This spell does not protect against the heat or noxious fumes.

**Speak with skulls** (2) allows you to reach through time and space
into the afterlife and contact the souls that inhabited the skull you
are holding. The conversation continues for as long as you keep
talking. The soul is not necessarily friendly and cannot be charmed.

**Speed** (2) allows a target to *move* at double speed for as long as
it can keep moving. Once it stops, the spell ends. Assuming a horse
can move 20 miles without stopping, this spell allows it to travel 40
miles before stopping for a rest. A an ordinary horse can do this
twice a day.

**Bone casting** (2) enables the caster to throw bones covered in
runes and read the fate of another person looking at the same runes.
This reveals whatever awaits the other person within the time frame
you are interested in: is there a trap behind this door, does an
ambush await us on this pass, without revealing how this fate can be
avoided.

**Water breathing** (3) allows one target to breathe underwater for
one day.

**Wind barrier** (3) prevents any flying thing from reaching you for
20min. Arrows, sling stones, rocks flung by giants, projectiles shot
by siege weapons, all are deflected.

**Lightning bolt** (3) strikes any visible foe within 200ft and
everybody standing between you and them, unless they're very small or
lying on the ground. Anything within two feet of the bolt is affected
and takes 1d6 damage per caster level (5d6 minimum), save vs. spells
for half damage.

**Drowning** (4) fills a targets lungs within 60ft with water and
kills them unless they save vs. spells. This spell has no effect on
creatures that don't breathe air.

**Flash flood** (4) creates a sudden flood from a body of water within
150 ft. Anybody caught by it must save vs. death or be swept away. If
wearing metal armour, save vs. death again or drown within a minute or
two.

**Dragon tongue** (4) grants you the ability to speak using the power
of the first born. Any living creature thus addressed and able to hear
must save vs. spells or obey your next ten commands for a minute. This
includes suicidal actions. This mind fork causes severe emotional
distress!

**Raise dead** (5) allows you visit the afterlife and find a person
that died within the last ten days and bring them back into their old
body. Their body must not have any fatal wounds because this spell
does not regenerate missing parts.

**Summon living storm** (5) conjures an elemental, usually the air
elemental called Angry Whip: HD 16 AC -2 3d8 F16 MV 36; plus 1d8
vs. flying creatures; requires a save vs. death to approach; immune to
non-magical weapons; attacks summoner and remains on this plane if the
conjurer's concentration fails.
