## Elam

![Elam](Elam.png)
Elam is an unshaved man with blood shot eyes and thinning, curly hair.
He is too busy for society and not many people have met him. He lives
in the Tower of Mirrors in Garvalheim, a small town by a river with a
toll bridge and a small fortresses on a hill on each side of the
river, Hunt castle and Stone castle.

The Tower of Mirrors is quiet and gloomy, these days. There are no
more servants and the last ones to serve now say that they have seen
pale men come through the mirrors to take away guests and fellow
servants. These people left their positions, fearing for their lives.
This is usually a terrible crime, but as Elam no longer seems to be
leaving his tower, nobody fears his wrath. People have destroyed all
the remaining mirrors in Garvalheim, though.

### The Book of Doors

**Lock** (1) locks any closed door¹ such that only the caster can open
it. Doing so ends the enchantment, though. No amount of force can open
such a locked door. Should a fire or earthquake destroy all the walls
around the door, it would still be locked and surrounded by its frame.
Digging a hole through the walls is probably faster than waiting for
the door to rot and rust away. The reverse, *Unlock* unlocks any
locked door that has been locked by mundane means (obviating the need
for strength checks and battle axes). It does not unlock a magically
locked door. You need to break the enchantment using a stronger spell.

**Extra pocket** (1) opens a tunnel to a pocket dimension behind a
closed lid of a chest or inside a small pouch. There is enough space
here for a big chest. Everybody casting this spell gets their own
little place. If you cast the spell again, you can get to the things
you placed there. They say that there is a way to get at other
people's pockets but the spell to connect two pockets is lost.

**Charm person** (1) affects a single target, save vs. spells to
resist. To break free, victims save again every day if their
intelligence is 13 or better, every week if their intelligence is
average, or every month if their intelligence is 8 or lower. While
charmed, victims treat you as their best friend. Once victims break
free, they remember everything they did and if they did anything they
would not have ordinarily have done, they react with shame and anger.
Charms usually cause severe emotional distress!

**Door** (2) creates an unlocked door¹ in a wall you touch. The wall
may not be thicker than a foot: you can enter many buildings but not
pass through castle walls. The door is big enough for you to pass
through comfortably and no bigger. The door remains until closed.

**Extra room** (2) creates a little pocket dimension behind a closed
door. When you open the door, it leads to a small stuffy room with
space enough for four people to huddle on the floor. Closing the door
a second time ends the connection between the door and the room.
Anybody left behind is stranded until somebody else happens to use the
same spell. This is why there always is a 1% chance of meeting
somebody unimportant in the little closet.

**Visiting the afterlife** (2) enchants the sleep of a person touched
such that they can visit their heart's desire in the afterlife – a
deceased loved one, for example. Their soul spends two hours in this
realm, be it Asgard or Hel while their body is caught in a magical
slumber from which nothing can wake them. Unwilling targets get a save
vs. spells before succumbing.

**Passage** (3) enchants a closed door such that opening it creates a
portal² to another, known door in the same realm. The portal remains
active until the door is closed.

**Gaseous form** (3) makes you malleable and gas-like so that you may
pass through anything that is not airtight. It also makes you
invulnerable to non-magical weapons. You may creep along the floor
like a dying man on his hands and knees, or you may rise up into the
air like smoke to be blown wherever the winds will blow.

**Teleportation trap** (3) creates subtle changes in the configuration
of space such that a group of people nearby will be teleported
elsewhere within 200ft without them noticing it. If the group of
people stretches for more than 60ft (a line of twenty people), then
the trap will not trigger. The trapped area radiates faint and
harmless magic.

**Mirror passage** (4) enchants a mirror such that it leads to the
lands of the Red King, a realm built on top of a huge, ruined city and
ruled by despotic nobles. From there, any mirror can be used to return
to your realm of origin.

**Summoning gate** (4) opens a calling portal to one of the nine
realms and forces a native into your present realm. Such a native
could be a troll, valkyrie, doppelgänger, elven noble, demon, naga or
similar (usually around HD 6). Anybody casting this spell gets their
own little ally. They will stay for an hour before fading away. If
they are killed, the spell will have no effect for a week and then it
will have latched onto a new ally.

**Fortification** (4) protects a location such as a castle from arcane
intruders for a day by creating magical fortifications and barriers
which will prevent any magical or summoned creatures from coming
closer than 100ft and it prevents any magical effects from crossing
the boundary: you can cast spells inside the fortification but you can
throw a fireball from the outside at anything inside the
fortification. The barriers do not dispell magic: a charmed person
could still walk past the barrier carrying a magic sword.

**Portal** (5) enchants a closed door such that opening it creates a
portal² to any unused door anywhere in the nine realms. You can
specify a building or a person and the portal will be created to the
nearest unused door. These doors are usually in deep cellars, attics,
ruins, dungeons, sewers and the like. The portal is permanent until
dispelled.

**Realm** (5) enchants a closed door such that opening it leads to a
little pocket realm, enough space for a building, a little land, some
sky, a light above, breathable air, and everything else. Anybody
casting this spell gets their own little realm. If you cast the spell
again, you can reshape your realm at your will with godlike powers or
change the door that leads to it. You cannot have more than one such
realm and one such door leading to it.

<hr>

¹ *Notes on doors*: A door is a wooden panel with hinges in a frame or
wall which can be opened or closed. Thus, trap doors qualify but gates
or a portcullis do not.

² *Notes on portals*: Portals are active when the door is opened in a
regular fashion. Destroying a part of the door or its frame destroys
the portal. A portal is bidirectional and bilateral: it can be used in
either direction and it can be entered on either side. If both doors
connect to a room, the basic use remains: entering a room through a
portal enters the other room, leaving a room through a portal leaves
the other room.
