# Spellcasters

## Foreword

Magic users and elves need to learn new spells from somebody, be it a
monster or another spellcaster, a non-player character with a spell
list, according to my house rules,
[Halberds & Helmets](https://alexschroeder.ch/wiki/Halberds_and_Helmets). This book lists important spellcasters which can act
as quest givers and teachers for player characters.

All these magic users and elves are level ten. This is where I usually
cap the game and I'm not interested in semi-divine magic users and
elves. If those make an appearance in my games, I just give them
whatever abilities I want. If players want special powers, let them
quest for it. All of this means that the repertoire of these
spellcasters is always the same: two spells of the fifth circle and
three spells of every circle below that.

The magic users have 10d4 hit points, elves have 10d6 hit points, they
save as a magic user or elf of the tenth level, they will wear no
armor unless they are an elf on a mission, and so on.

As for the spells themselves, it is unavoidable that some classic
spells are repeated. I hope you don't mind. If you have better ideas,
submit them! My email address:
[kensanata@gmail.com](mailto:kensanata@gmail.com).

If there are small differences between similar spells, then so be it.
These are the spells that the spellcasters have. It is up to the
players to decide which variants their characters consider worth
learning.

As for the general classification: if a spell has a quantifiable
effect in the 1d6 range, it's a spell of the first circle. If said
effect is in the 1d6 per caster level range, it's a spell of the third
circle. Everything else follows from there.

## License

This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution
ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC BY-SA 4.0). To view a copy of
this license, visit
[https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).
What follows is a human-readable summary of (and not a substitute for)
the license.

You are free to:

- **Share** — copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format

- **Adapt** — remix, transform, and build upon the material for any
  purpose, even commercially.

The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you follow the
following license terms:

- **Attribution** — You must give appropriate credit, provide a link
  to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in
  any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor
  endorses you or your use.

- **ShareAlike** — If you remix, transform, or build upon the
  material, you must distribute your contributions under the same
  license as the original.

- **No additional restrictions** — You may not apply legal terms or
  technological measures that legally restrict others from doing
  anything the license permits.

Notices:

You do not have to comply with the license for elements of the
material in the public domain or where your use is permitted by an
applicable exception or limitation.

No warranties are given. The license may not give you all of the
permissions necessary for your intended use. For example, other rights
such as publicity, privacy, or moral rights may limit how you use the
material.

### Authors

- Alex Schroeder, https://alexschroeder.ch/
- Belchion, https://belchion.rsp-blogs.de/
