## Hadrael

![Hadrael](Hadrael.png)
Hadrael lives in the forest of *Old Treeherder Oak*, where the Nieper
River splits into multiple arms and the ground is wet and dark. There,
away from watchful eyes and surrounded by deathtraps and dragon skulls
this old elf and his shield brothers and sisters live and train, for
they care about nothing other but the slaying of dragons and other
monsters.

They say that if you are fighting evil creatures allied with a dragon,
you might find that Hadrael will come along with you. He cares for
nothing but the dragon, but sometimes that is all you need. Yf the
necromancer reported that when they fought the froglings of the Grey
Swamp, Hadrael killed the green dragon in two rounds. Then again, he
descends from a line of ice hunters and he wears the insignia of
Odin's Wild Hunt.

Hadrael's tree home is a gigantic tree in the swamp, majestic and
somber, and hard to reach by foot because of the magically reinforced
*iron thorn swamp rose thicket* surrounding it for a mile. Visitors
must fly or take the river barge from Iraguk and pray the crocodiles
aren't hungry that day.

### The Book of Odin

**Detect magic** (1) makes all magic items within 30ft give of a faint
blue glow for 10min. Anybody can see this glow.

**Restore faith** (1) heals 1d6+1 points upon touching the target

**Sleep** (1) puts 2d8 HD of creatures to sleep, no save. The
creatures with the least HD go first.

**Speak with animals** (2) allows you to converse with animals of a
particular species for 20min. A reaction roll might still be necessary
because the animals are not automatically charmed.

**Hold person** (2) paralyses 1d4 human-like creatures for an hour.
Human like creatures are not much larger than humans, made of flesh
and blood, they have two legs, two arms, a head, and they can speak.
Frog men are included, myconids are not; dwarves are included, giants
are not.

**Silence** (2) prevents any sound from originating within 15ft of the
target (usually a stone, up to 180ft away). Targets may attempt a save
vs. spells to avoid the effect. This would prevent them from moving
out of range. Nobody can speak or cast spells within 15ft of the
target. As outside noise still enters the bubble of silence, victims
may not immediately notice that they have been silenced.

**Speed** (3) doubles your actions every round for half an hour: move
twice as fast, attack twice as often. You can't cast twice as many
spells because timing is important.

**Fly** (3) allows you to fly at your walking speed for 2h.

**Dispel magic** (3) will dispel ongoing spells and suppress magic
items for 1d4 rounds.

**Plant growth** (4) turns a 60ft × 60ft area of bushes or trees into
a magical thicket in an instant. Machetes or something equivalent will
be required to traverse this undergrowth. The spell can also be used
to magically enhance larger trees, turning them into majestic towers,
able to carry the weight of a large and beautiful tree house, or it
can be used to grow trees into magical wooden river barges, or similar
wooden structures. When dispelled, the material loses its magical
hardiness but doesn't immediately turn to dust. The thorns lose their
sting, the wood loses its fire resistance, its imperviousness to salt
water.

**Shape change** (4) allows the transformation into a different
creature for 2h, such as a dragon. As a dragon, Hadrael's stats change
to AC 0 1d8/1d8/3d10 MV 24 (flying).

**Wait** (4) allows you and up to twenty companions to enter a special
trance that removes your bodies from the time stream. Your minds still
observe the spot where you entered the trance, but nothing can affect
you unless you want to return into the world. No time passes for you,
but you can spend centuries outside the time stream.

**Hold monster** (5) paralyses any 1d4 creatures for an hour.

**Time thief** (5) allows you to send your sense into the immediate
future for a day and a night, giving you a chance to react
appropriately, once per turn or once per fight: if anybody at the
table announces an action or an event, you get two immediate, extra
rounds to act in. If you are surprised, you lose one round, just like
everybody else. The round you lose can be one of these extra two
rounds, however.
