## Iauniel

![Iauniel](Iauniel.png)
When the world was young, it is said that the shadows were ruled by
spiders as large as castles. Their presence swallowed the light and
wove darkness into threads imbued with Earth Blood, binding all the
living things to them. It was then that elves and magic users learned
the spells of weaving from those ancient monstrosities.

Iauniel is one of the old masters of arachnomancy. They live in the
town of Fallsburg, in gardens full of the most beautiful birds, the
happiest little caves, cute waterfalls, magnificent ferns and
wonderful flowers. People decide to stay, people pick up strange
habits, people build insane things, and nobody knows that they are
following the threads of fate spun by Iauniel living in their midst,
unseen.

### The Book of Weaving

**Rope command** (1) allows you to command up to 50ft of rope for
10min. It can slither like a snake, knot and unknot, trip people
passing over it, and so on.

**Silk** (1) allows you to weave up to 50ft of spider silk rope out of
thin air. At night, it allows you to catch moonlight and weave the
finest silk from it. A square up to 50×50ft of cloth can be created:
nets, sails, curtains, you name it.

**Spider climb** (1) allows anybody you touch into a half spider
centaur for 10min. With your legs, you can climb along any solid
surface or rope. With your spider silk gland, you can secure yourself
against falls when jumping.

**Glamour** (2) allows you to turn into a beautiful human, with the
most enchanting voice and amazing grace. Others spending more than an
hour in your company may save vs. spells to notice a disconcerting
flickering of the glamour momentarily revealing an alternate reality
of multiple eyes or extra spider legs growing out of your back.

**Liquefy** (2) makes your jaw grow large, with acid glands, and if
you manage to bite somebody in that very moment, they must save
vs. poison or suffer 4d6 acid damage. If they're already dead, you can
liquefy a human-sized corpse (and drink the goo, if you feel like it).

**Spider senses** (2) allows you to enchant a target such that they
are able to locate the smallest vibrations within 100ft using their
fingertips. Anytime they touch the ground or a wall, they can pinpoint
living creatures in range – as long as these also touch the ground or
a wall! They can no longer be surprised. In addition to that, their
heads grows six extra, sleepless eyes. This allows them to see in all
directions, and to see additional colours like *jale* and *ulfire*.
These eyes grant no mechanical benefits. The spell ends and the eyes
disappear back into their surrounding flesh after half an hour.

**Observation** (3) gives you the power to observe what somebody is
doing, no matter where they are, if and only if you can eat a little
bit of their hair. The target must save vs. spell in order to notice
the strange presence in their mind. If they do, they may defend
themselves with mind-affecting spells such as *charms*, *mind blast*,
*mind reading*, *mind rot*, or *warp mind*.

**Phase walk** (3) allows you to see the maze of crisscrossing lines
connecting the realms and with one step, you can cross over to any of
the eight known realms: Asgard (city of the gods), Alfheim (elves),
Midgard (humans), Myrkheim (dwarves), Jötunheim (giants), Vanaheim
(demons), Niflheim (trolls), Muspelheim (salamanders). You appear far
from any watchful eyes but near a building. You can bring along
whatever you can carry, i.e. one other person.

**Web** (3) allows you to fill a 10ft cube with sticky spider webs.
You need surfaces to anchor the web. Anybody caught in the web is
automatically immobilised. Without outside help, it's practically
impossible to free oneself from the web. A slow death awaits anybody
caught. The web doesn't burn very quickly: to free a passage filled
with these webs using fire takes 10min per 10ft. Anybody caught in a
burning web takes 2d8 damage as they free themselves. Anybody caught
in a web with a torch automatically sets it on fire and is thus
automatically free after 10min.

**Kill** (4) allows you see the life thread of a
living target up to 60ft away and cut it. The target must save
vs. death or die.

**Network** (4) allows you to tap into the network of living spiders
all around you. Any spider within two or three miles in any direction
can be contacted by you by simply projecting your mind, sending back
the things they can hear and see. You can understand the words spoken
and read written messages even if the spider whose sense you are using
cannot. It is hard to project your mind into the void, looking for
things you don't know. You must know the location or person or object
you're interested in, for this spell to work.

**Return** (4) allows you to create a silver thread that leads you and
up to three others to a destination you have been to before. The
thread leads through wrinkles in the barrier between the realms and
thus effectively allows you to reach any destination in any of the
known realms with no more than a dozen steps.

**Fate** (5) allows you to spin invisible threads of chance and fate
to entrap a particular person. You can cover a 100ft cube in a day.
When the person enters the area, they end up doing the things you
suggested with your threads, if at all possible. Random events trigger
reactions that lead to consequences that you have laid out when
weaving the threads. The spell can be cast multiple times in order to
affect more people. The threads linger for as long as the surrounding
walls keep standing. The world is full of these threads, waiting for
victims that have passed a way ages ago.

**Transmigration** (5) allows you to leave your body and transfer your
soul into arthropods of any kind: insects, spiders, crabs, no matter
how big or small. You can spread your consciousness into many of these
creatures and reassemble as large as your original body but made up of
this vermin. In this form, you can deal 1d6 damage every round to a
living creature and replenish any killed members from the environment
as thousands of vermin stream towards you. The only thing that can
effectively kill you is an area effect such as fire, water, ice,
poison gas or lightning. You can hollow out a dead body about the size
of your original body and take it over for a day. Beyond that, it gets
difficult to hide the discolorations, the bad smell and the writhing
vermin beneath the dead skin. Your original body will die within a day
unless it's cared for by somebody. Then again, if it dies, who cares.
You're practically immortal, now.
