## Ilisanor

![Ilisanor](Ilisanor.png)
To be done.


### The Book of Weaving

**Rope command** (1) allows you to command up to 50ft of rope for
10min. It can slither like a snake, knot and unknot, trip people
passing over it, and so on.

**Silk** (1) allows you to weave up to 50ft of spider silk rope out of
thin air. At night, it allows you to catch moonlight and weave the
finest silk from it. A square up to 50×50ft of cloth can be created:
nets, sails, curtains, you name it.

**Spider climb** (1) allows anybody you touch into a half spider
centaur for 10min. With your legs, you can climb along any solid
surface or rope. With your spider silk gland, you can secure yourself
against falls when jumping.

**Spider hands** (2) allows you to locate the smallest vibrations
within 100ft using your fingertips. Anytime you touch the ground or a
wall in the next half hour, you can pinpoint living creatures within
range – as long as they also touch the ground or a wall!

**Spider vision** (2) grows six extra eyes all around a head you
touch. For a day, they can see in all directions, and they can see all
sorts of additional colours like *jale* and *ulfire*. With these extra
sleepless eyes, the target can no longer be surprised.

**Liquefy** (2) makes your jaw grow large, with acid glands, and if
you manage to bite somebody in that very moment, they must save
vs. poison or suffer 4d6 acid damage. If they're already dead, you can
liquefy a human-sized corpse (and drink the goo, if you feel like it).

**Phase walk** (3) allows you to see the maze of crisscrossing lines
connecting the realms and with one step, you can cross over to any of
the eight known realms: Asgard (city of the gods), Alfheim (elves),
Midgard (humans), Myrkheim (dwarves), Jötunheim (giants), Vanaheim
(demons), Niflheim (trolls), Muspelheim (salamanders). You appear far
from any watchful eyes but near a building. You can bring along
whatever you can carry, i.e. one other person.

**Web** (3) allows you to fill a 10ft cube with sticky spider webs.
Anybody caught in the web is automatically immobilised. It doesn't
burn very quickly: to free a passage filled with these webs takes
10min per 10ft. Anybody caught in a burning web takes 2d8 damage as
they free themselves. Anybody caught in a web with an open fire such
as a torch automatically sets it on fire.

**Observation** (3) gives you the power to observe what somebody is
doing, no matter where they are, if and only if you can eat a little
bit of their hair. The target must save vs. spell in order to notice
the strange presence in their mind. If they do, they may defend
themselves with mind-affecting spells such as *charms*, *mind blast*,
*mind reading*, *mind rot*, or *warp mind*.

**Cut the thread of fate** (4) allows you see the life thread of a
living target up to 60ft away and cut it. The target must save
vs. death or die.

**Follow the thread** (4) allows you to create a silver thread that
leads you and up to three others to a destination you have been to
before. The thread leads through wrinkles in the barrier between the
realms and thus effectively allows you to reach any destination in any
of the known realms with no more than a dozen steps.

**Network** (4) allows you to tap into the network of living spiders
all around you. Any spider within two or three miles in any direction
can be contacted by you by simply projecting your mind, sending back
the things they can hear and see. You can understand the words spoken
and read written messages even if the spider whose sense you are using
cannot. It is hard to project your mind into the void, looking for
things you don't know. You must know the location or person or object
you're interested in, for this spell to work.

**...** (5)

**Transmigration** (5) allows you to leave your body and transfer your
soul into arthropods of any kind: insects, spiders, crabs, no matter
how big or small. You can spread your consciousness into many of these
creatures and reassemble as large as your original body but made up of
this vermin. In this form, you can deal 1d6 damage every round to a
living creature and replenish any killed members from the environment
as thousands of vermin stream towards you. The only thing that can
effectively kill you is an area effect such as fire, water, ice,
poison gas or lightning. You can hollow out a dead body about the size
of your original body and take it over for a day. Beyond that, it gets
difficult to hide the discolorations, the bad smell and the writhing
vermin beneath the dead skin. Your original body will die within a day
unless it's cared for by somebody. Then again, if it dies, who cares.
You're practically immortal, now.
