## Korokoro

![Korokoro](Korokoro.png) Ten years ago they found old tunnels of the
vat men beneath the mountains of *Rabish*. Soon, the expedition to
salvage what had been left behind disappeared. The winds of madness
had eaten what was left. This is the realm of Korokoro, a bird friend
who had opened his mind to the *warp*, that terrible space between
spaces, that gateway to Vanaheim, that realm of Pazuzu.

### The Book of the Warp

**Amnesia** (1) allows you to look somebody in the eyes and lets them
forget what just happened, up to ten minutes. At 5th level, victims
can forget up to a day. This includes all the spells they memorised.
Creatures immune to *charm* or *sleep* spells are also immune to
*amnesia*; anybody else must save vs. spells if they want to look away
in time.

**Mishap** (1) is a very small curse on a target within 60ft: they
must save vs. spells or fail their next action, no matter what it is:
all their attacks, all their spells, all their movements. If they
attempt to do it, they fumble. If they try to stab somebody with a
sword, they drop it. If they try to sheathe their sword, they cut
themselves. If they move, they stumble. If they speak, they
mispronounce.

**Recoil** (1) turns you briefly into a horrendous monster in the eyes
of anybody within melee range; anybody who sees you must save
vs. spells or recoil in horror and be *stunned* for one round. To be
stunned means that you cannot move and you cannot attack, but
opponents must still roll to hit. To recoil means to take an
uncontrolled step back.

**Ooze** (2) is a very limited shape shift. You can turn to a very
slow moving ooze (AC 9 MV 3) and flow through the smallest cracks –
but very, very slowly. The effect ends when you will it to end or when
you die. You can pick any colour but you don't gain any special
abilities, cannot speak and cannot damage anybody. You can suffocate a
helpless person.

**Outgrowth** (2) allows organic matter to grow from your body: moss,
mushrooms, grass, fur, horns, claws. You can use it to achieve perfect
camouflage if you're immobile, to give off a flowery scent, or to grow
fruit for somebody else to eat. You can command things to grow for ten
minutes and once grown, these things stay until you cut them off
manually. It takes two weeks for last traces to disappear.

**Plague Touch** (2) turns you into a rotting half-corpse for an hour.
Your skin starts peeling off, there's pus and other fluids, the smell
is dreadful, and worst of all: it's contagious. Anybody you touch must
save vs. poison or contract the same rotting disease. You loose half
your hit points and don't regain them when the spell ends. Other
victims you infect loose all their hit points but one within ten
minutes and don't recover unless they undergo a week-long purification
ritual involving a lot of bathing, fuming and changing of bandages.

**Animate Rock** (3) animates a large boulders up to the size of an
elephant (HD 9 AC 4 3d6 F9 MV 12). The rocks are pulled from their
slow time into the present and it confuses them. They can be
controlled for 1h if control slips, they are free to do what they
want. Usually they run off into nearby hills and mountains before
eventually slowing down again.

**Grow limb** (3) makes an extra limb grow out of a body. It takes
about ten minutes to form. For every limb you add beyond the number
your brain was born to deal with, there is a cumulative 1 in 6 chance
of it misbehaving in an emergency: a 2 in 6 chance you cannot take off
with your two new dragon wings, or a 2 in 6 chance you cannot attack
with your two new extra crab pincers. You could grow an extra head like
an ettin and have it control the extra limbs. But then you'll need to
make sure it stays loyal.

**Warp Mind** (3) tears at the barriers between the realms and these
vibrations and the glimpses of the void are so terrible that they
shatter the minds of many: anybody within 60ft must save vs. death or
go stark raving mad for half an hour. Victims attack random targets!

**Open Mind** (4) opens your mind to the warp and the howling voices
of demons from that void between the realms. They speak of terrible
secrets that will drive any mortal mad. You have but a few moments to
search for answers: ask a question and save vs. spells. If you fail,
descend into madness for half an hour. This is why others often think
it best to tie down and gag anybody about to open their mind to the
warp! If you make the save, you receive an answer to your question.
Note that the future is unknown and remains obscure even to the demons
from beyond the pale.

**Sharing** (4) allows you to grow a shared understanding with
anything alive within 150ft and to maintain this contact with the area
for a day: to hear what all the plants can hear, to see what all the
animals can see. Intelligent beings in the area must save vs. spells
or share just like everybody else.

**Warp Flesh** (4) slashes at the barriers of the realms and allows
these vortexes of madness and mutation into the world, transforming
flesh and bone: Anybody within 60ft must save vs. death or undergo
terrible mutations: roll a d12 and replace arms with tentacles (1) or
claws (2), unable to hold anything but doing 1d6 damage; replace legs
with tentacles (3) or flippers (4), allowing you to swim but not to
walk; replace lower half with the body of a giant spider (5), allowing
you to climb but giving you AC 6; rip the skin of your face (6),
reducing you to 1hp but allowing you to see all things invisible and
hidden; transforming you into a slow-moving ooze (7) with AC 9 but
allowing you to seep through the tiniest cracks; grow long spines 1m
long from your body (8), unable to run or hold anything but anybody
attacking you with a one-handed melee weapon is takes automatic 1d6
damage; split into two opposed clones (9); your eyes melt and your
blood thirst surges (10), attack random people nearby at -4; a
necroworm infestation increases your hit-points by 4d6 (11) but when
the spell ends and the worms die, suffer 4d6 damage; sucked into the
void (12) and spewed back out when the spell ends. The spells ends
after half an hour but the voices in your head don't stop for a few
days.

**Clone** (5) creates a perfect clone of yourself. The clone is in
perfect cryostasis surrounded by white fog and bathed in blue light.
Should you die or will yourself to rebirth, your clone awakens and you
die. There can be only one! Any extra clones remain in stasis. Your
later memories only transfer very vaguely to the clone.

**Warp Gate** (5) opens a gate into the space between the realms and
the madness of the void coagulates into demons of the most terrible
kind. You can keep the gate open for as long as you want. Every ten
minutes, another demon steps through. These demons want to destroy and
kill, and as long as you can offer that, they'll follow your command.
When you stop, however, the demons don't disappear.
