## Lem

![Lem](Lem.png)
Lem is an initiate of the boneless school.


**Boneless** (1) allows you to bend your body into impossible shapes
for 20min. You can move as if you didn't have any solid bones in your
body such that you can squeeze through holes the size of a ring if
you're not wearing a thing. Sadly, the things you wear remain as solid
as ever.

**Camouflage** (1) allows you to change colours for 1h. Anything you
carry changes colour with you. As long as you're not moving, there's a
1–5 in 6 chance that people cannot spot you. People that have spotted
you cannot be fooled again.

**Ink** (1) turns the air you exhale charcoal black for 20min. Anybody
within it is blind (-4 to hit). The blackness quickly spreads 15ft in
every direction. A gust of wind disperses it.

**Detachment** (2) allows you to detach pieces of your body, and
reattach them, as long as they haven't been separated from your body
for more than 20min. This includes hands, eyes, and ears. You can
still control detached pieces and you still see and hear and feel what
they do. If you fail to reattach detached pieces, they wither and die
and don't not regenerate.

**Extra arms** (2) grows up to four tentacles for 20min. They act
semi-autonomously, grabbing things within their reach, letting go if
you move on, pulling them closer if you stand still. This is perfect
for climbing rocks and trees, carrying things, and other simple tasks
where you need to get a grip.

**Worm summoning** (2) grants you ability to summon a giant worm in
10min (30ft long, HD 6 AC 3 1d8 F3 MV 60 ML 9 XP 600; swallows victims
on an attack roll of 19 or 20, swim through earth). The worm stays for
2h and can travel up to 20 miles in flat terrain; it carries up to
five people. It can also dig a tunnel 2 miles long using it's Earth
Blood magic, but the tunnel closes again after a bit such that only 10
people may safely follow it below ground.

**Extra hands** (3) grows up to four human arms for 20min. These arms
are under your control and each can wield a weapon as well as you do.

**...** (3)

**...** (3)

**No brainer** (4) grows four facial tentacles for 20min. On your next
melee hit of creature with a skull no larger than a human, you deal no
damage but grapple with your arms and facial tentacles. On every
subsequent hit, your victim must save vs. death or have their brains
destroyed by tentacles forcing their way through nostrils and eye
sockets.

**...** (4)

**...** (4)

**...** (5)

**...** (5)
