## Moroson

![Moroson](Moroson.png)
Moroson is a priest of *Marduk*, Keeper of the Flame, Master of the
Mace, Lion King of Paranash. His tower is built at the far end of a
narrow gorge, right atop a fountain. The gorge is quite narrow but a
dragon could still fly to the tower and land at the top. Down below,
people travel single file.

Here, in this remote location, Moroson trains *travelling judges*.
These travel the land with a retinue of twelve guards and settle
disputes and carry out judgements. They act as both judge and
executioner, but they only act when an accuser invokes their help with
the phrase "Traveller, I need an impartial judge. I submit to your
judgement if you will investigate this crime." These judges do not
like false accusations.

Interestingly, these judges don't use any actual spells to resolve
their cases. They say that this would prevent others from verifying
their arguments and thus decrease the impact of their judgements.

### The Book of Armies

**Bolt of power** (1) shoots one unerring bolt of liquid sunlight
dealing 1d6+1 to a target within 180ft. This increases to three
missiles at level 5 and to five missiles at level 10. You may aim
these missiles at different targets.

**Protection from harm** (1) covers you shining armour made of solid
sunlight granting you AC 4 against melee attacks and AC 2 against
ranged attacks. This magic armour weighs nothing and allows you to
swim. The spell lasts for 2h.

**Voice of the ruler** (1) convinces a person that that hears you that
you are to be obeyed unless they save vs. spells. This servitude
continues as long as you want. Victims are granted a new save every
week and whenever they are forced to do anything that they really hate
to do.

**Chariot of fire** (2) sets your chariot on fire such that anywhere
you ride flammable objects start burning and anybody standing too
close takes 1d6 fire damage, no save.

**Club of law** (2) turns your own weapon into a searing weapon of
light dealing an extra 1d6 damage. If your weapon is not magical, it
now counts as a magical +0 weapon. The spells lasts for 20min.

**Eyes of the overlord** (2) allows you to see anything invisible
within 60ft. The spell lasts for 20min.

**Ligning bolt** (3) is a javelin of lightning dealing 1d6 per caster
level (minimum 5d6) to a target within 180ft and anybody standing
between you and the target. Targets may save vs. spells for half.
Wooden structures like shields, doors or siege engines hit are
destroyed.

**Wings of god** (3) allows a target to fly for 2h. Their movement
rate is half that of a person running (MV 6).

**Protection from hail** (3) protects you from missiles of all sorts
for 2h. Arrows, bolts and sling stones cannot pierce this shining
shield, but rocks thrown by giant or spells still break through the
barrier.

**Sun chariot** (4) summons a flying, flaming, scythed chariot dealing
2d6 to anybody you ride past. It holds three people. The chariot is
yours to command for 8h. Its movement rate is as fast as a wolf (MV
18).

**Voice of the master** (4) dominates a creature to serve you. You
need to speak a language it understands for it to obey specific
commands. If you don't, you are limited to whatever you can convey
without words. The spell lasts for 10min.

**Wall of fire** (4) creates a stationary wall of fire 300ft wide,
30ft high and 10ft deep. No animal will cross it and any other
creature doing so takes 2d6 points of fire damage. This wall lasts for
20min or until dismissed.

**Eyes of truth** (5) reveals all illusions, invisible things,
ethereal beings, astral projections and whatever else there is. This
spell lasts for 10min.

**Melting walls** (5) turns stone to mud. This is usually enough to
breach almost all city walls. Basically a cube of 30ft on every side
is affected, so if the wall is thicker than 30ft, it won't be breached
by a single casting of the spell.
