## Narga

![Narga](Narga.png)
Narga is the Pirate Queen of the South Seas. 

### Treasure

...

### Book of the Sea Hag

**Charm person** (1) affects a single target, save vs. spells to
resist. To break free, victims save again every day if their
intelligence is 13 or better, every week if their intelligence is
average, or every month if their intelligence is 8 or lower. While
charmed, victims will treat you as their best friend. Once victims
break free, they will remember everything they did and if they did
anything they would not have ordinarily have done, they will react
with shame and anger. Charms usually cause severe emotional distress!

**...** (1)

**Water walking** (1) enables a target to walk on liquids for 20min.
Usually, this means water, but it might also be lava or quicksand.
This spell does not protect against the heat or noxious fumes.

**Long Dive** (2) allows five people to breathe underwater for 20min.

**Speak with skulls** (2) allows you to reach through time and space
into the afterlife and contact the souls that inhabited the skull you
are holding. The conversation will continue for as long as you keep
taking. The soul will not necessarily be friendly and cannot be
charmed.

**...** (2)

**Rock Throw** (3) allows you to open a tiny hole into the *Deep
Earth* and grab a floating rock throbbing with *Earth Blood*. With a
shout, throw, punch or kick the rock and it will fly 200ft. through
the air and smash things made of wood. Anything in its path takes 1d6
damage per caster level (5d6 minimum), save vs. spells for half
damage.

**...** (3)

**...** (3)

**Like Leaves** (4) allows you to enchant an area of 20ft. diameter
with up to 20 people in it (you included, if you want) in order to
make them as light as dry leaves, and conjure up a strong gust of wind
which will blow all of them to any place you can see within one mile,
allowing them land safely. Anybody trying to resist must save vs.
spell in order to stay. Should they fail, they cannot land safely and
will take at least 1d6 damage if landing on solid ground, plus
1d6/10ft. falling damage for up to 10d6 if applicable (for a total of
11d6 maximum) and half damage when landing in water.

**...** (4)

**...** (4)

**...** (5)

**...** (5)
