## Olgana

![Olgana](Olgana.png)
Lady Olgana belongs to the Order of Light, an organisation of fighters
and magic users dedicated to fighting evil.

She lives in a castle up in the mountains, by a beautiful cold lake.
There is a wall that closes off the entire valley, and watch towers
guard the passes in their back. Twenty knights live here, with a level
range of 3–7, with their squires and other servants, and about a dozen
acolytes and their servants, about two hundred people in total. This
only works because many of these knights own land elsewhere and it is
the money of those peasants that supports this castle close to the sky
and the gods. They ride regular patrols down towards the plains,
protecting the carts and mules making their way up to the castle.

The spells based on light can be cancelled by magical darkness.

### The Book of Light

**The Psalm of the Loyal Soul** (1) turns a humanoid into a standfast
friend of yours for a day (no giants, no undead, no plantlings and the
like) unless they make a save vs. spells. If you also treat them as
your best friend for a day, then the friendship continues as if it had
always been thus. If you are separate, the spell wears off after half
the time: if you have been best friends for a week, the target remains
your best friend for three more days. After that, old suspicions and
negative feelings might return. If you betray the friendship,
disappointment and rage replace the void you left in your target's
heart.

**The Song of Hope** (1) summons a soft light in the darkness,
covering anything within 15ft of the caster. To stand in the light is
to be protected from fear and madness. The light follows the caster
for 2h. When anybody within the light is attacked, the light flares up
and blinds enemies of the caster (-4 to hit).

**The Song of Life** (1) summons sunlight to shine on anything within
30ft. The undead cannot enter this light, and if they do, they are
stunned for a round (they can move but no longer attack), and if they
do not leave the area of effect on their next turn, they are now
helpless (and can be killed with one blow). The undead can still hurt
the people inside the light using magic or ranged weapons, of course.
When the spell it casts the light grows quickly, but not quickly enough
to trap any undead within range in the light. The light is immobile.

**Halt!** (2) Shouting this command forces anybody within 60ft to stop
what they are doing and listen to what you have to say unless they
save vs. spells. The spell ends when you move and individuals held
break free when touched or threatened.

**The Prayer for the Light of Truth** (2) enchants an object to emit
the light of truth. The effect is permanent until ritually defiled
using blood and excrement or the like. With 30ft, one must save
vs. spells or visibly hesitate for a round before committing an evil
act such as telling a lie or attacking. Visibly hesitating before an
attack prevents surprises and backstabbing. The aura of peace and
benevolence is palpable.

**The Mantra of True Intent** (2) allows you to you to see the true
intent of everybody within 60ft of you for 1h as a grimace on their
faces. Whether they intend good or evil, their faces reveal to you
their true intent as a beatific smile or as a spiteful scowl.

**The Song of Battle** (3) enchants a sword pommel you must hold into
a two-handed sword made of white light that lasts for as long as you
proudly sing the song. It can cut through steel but cutting through a
vault might take 10min. Against a living being it deals 2d6 damage.

**The Hymn of the Sun** (3) calls forth the punishing power of pure
light. Raise your arm and a small gap in the fabric of the world
between your palms opens and a burst of sunfire blasts everything in a
straight line 180ft long and 5ft wide dealing 1d6/level (minimum 5d6)
to anybody along its way, save vs. spells for half. The light is
reflected by large mirrors at least 5ft tall and can be directed back
at the caster or other targets within range.

**Inner Peace** (3) ends all spells active on a target or in a
location; it even suppresses the effect of magic items and other
permanent magic effects for as long as you keep your eyes closed.

**Light Beam** (4) allows you or somebody you touch to take one single
step and be instantly transported to any location you can see. It is
said that none of those trying to reach the celestial bodies have ever
returned, but who knows.

**Psalm of the Beast** (4) tames dangerous beast and befriends
monsters unless they make a save vs. spells. You can tame as many hit
dice as you have levels (at least 7). If you mistreat the victims,
they may retry to save immediately. Otherwise, if treated with
benevolence, they may retry their save after a week. Those who make
the save start to recover gradually, so an observant spell caster can
identify the troublemakers and charm them again.

**Song of Truth** (4) prevents anybody that hears it from speaking a
lie while the song continues. Once started, anybody can continue
singing it, extending its duration.

**Song of Renewal** (5) heals all wounds, even the fatal ones, it
regenerates lost limbs and it mends broken bones. The only thing it
doesn’t do is revive the dead.

**Prayer for Help** (5) summons an archon, a warrior angel (HD 6 AC 1
1W8 MV 15; immune to non-magical weapons; can see in the dark; can
shape change into a dog at will; can sing the Song of Truth at will,
can recite the Mantra of True Intent at will, and can use the Light
Beam at will). This angel supports you for a particular task as long
as your intent is sincere and serves the law.
