## Qunu

![Qunu](Qunu.png)
Qunu is a witch. She's not one of the old and bitter hags cursed by
too many deals with the devil, no. She's one of the favorites of Hel,
the goddess of magic: charming, powerful, beautiful, intelligent,
always a step ahead of the game.

She lives in a beautiful palace built into the *Wall of Aigur*, a
sheer wall only reachable by a precarious foot path secured by damp
ropes overlooking the Forest of *Dreadful Faces*. The gate palace
itself is guarded by thee three hellhounds *Harm*, *Pain* and *Bones*.
On the palace roof there is a viewing platform where the troll *Envy*
keeps watch.

The area around her palace is kept safe by the orc tribe *Masks of
Fury*. These 50 orcs are sneaky hunters. As far as they are concerned,
nobody who needs to walk needs to talk to Qunu. All her friends know
how to fly.

### The Book of Witchcraft

**Charm male** (1) affects a single male person¹ for a day, save
vs. spells to resist. While charmed, victims treat you as their true
love. To leave you is to die. To resist you in anything is impossible.
If the charm is renewed daily, the target is unwilling to resist and
thus remains forever enthralled as long as the spell is renewed. Once
a victim break free, they remember everything they did and if they did
anything they would not have ordinarily have done, they react with
shame and anger. Charms usually cause severe emotional distress!

**Mind rot** (1) confuses a target within 60ft for half an hour. They
don't remember what they are doing here, they don't remember their
name, their friends, their enemies, their spells, the books they've
read, and so on. Their soul is still here, so their *feelings* are
unaffected. Sadly, it's hard to act coherently if all you know is how
you feel about people and situations. When the spell ends, the victims
don't recall much, not even the moment they lost their mind.

**Silent message** (1) allows you to send a short message and receive
a short answer without speaking any words. The recipient has to be
within a mile. The message does not involve any mind reading so you
still need to share a common language, and replying is optional.

**Beautiful** (2) makes you the most beautiful being in the world for
all around you. For the next half hour, nobody within 30ft. may harm
you or resist your kiss unless they save vs. spells. The spell ends if
you kiss somebody.

**Servant** (2) creates a magical servant of your devising, just for
you. It can be a dead body given ghoulish life, a zombie, a talking
crow, or an owl, or a dead knight, anything like that. If the servant
is at least as large as a child, it can fight: HD 2 AC 9 1d6 MV 9. It
might even wield a weapon and wear armour, if suitable a weapon and
armour can be found.

**Illusion** (2) allows you to create and maintain an illusion as
large as a house for as long as you concentrate on it. Anybody
touching it may save vs. spells in order to see through the illusion.
An illusion attacks like the caster but always has an AC of 9.
Illusionary damage affects you as long as you believe it until you
faint.

**Flying** (3) allows you to fly at half you movement speed (like a
person wearing plate armour) for 2h. When the spell ends and you are
still flying, you fall and take the usual 1d6 per 10ft falling damage

**Puppet master** (3) allows you to create a puppet of another person,
if and only if you have a bit of their hair. This puppet is linked to
the owner of the hair. Attach some strings to the puppet and you can
control the movements of the other person. You cannot make them drop
something, or pick something up, or say something, or eat or drink
something, but you control their arms and legs. You can make them
jump, dance, fall over, crawl. Anybody who can *see invisible things*
can see and follow the strings that connect the puppet to its master.

**...** (3)

**Awaken stone** (4) turns a boulder into a stone giants (HD 9 AC 1
3d6 F8 MV 6; surprise foes 1–3/6). The giant speaks your language and
is as helpful as it can in the immediate situation. As soon as
politely possible it wanders off, wanting to finally see the world
after all these years.

**Curse** (4) affects a visible target within hearing distance, or
anybody who's hair you have in your fingers, unless they save
vs. spells. Curses include *love* (intelligence 3), *weakness*
(strength 3), *trembling* (dexterity 3), *sickness* (constitution 3),
*coughing up worms* (charisma 3), *shape changing* (turn into an
animal during either day or night), *bad luck* (-4 to all saves) and
the like. When pronouncing the curse, you must mention a way for
somebody to break the curse ("until kissed by a prince" or "until
invited into a house", for example). The curse can be broken by a
reversal of this spell.

**Doll** (4) allows you to create a doll of another person, if and
only if you have a bit of their hair. This doll is linked to the owner
of the hair. If you lift the doll and hold it close to your face, they
can see your face, hear your voice, smell your breath, feel your
touch. And you can hear them whisper with a very thin voice, too. And
if you stab the doll with hot needles, if you set it on fire, then the
other person suffers the most grievous pain and takes 1d6 damage per
round until their organs rupture, their blood boils and their skin
catches fire. It is a heinous way to go. And while they are dying,
they – and anybody close to them – can see your face, hear your voice.
They know who did it.

**Curse the land** (5) enchants an entire region and places a curse on
it, for example eternal slumber or permanent winter. The pronouncement
of the curse must be followed by a feasible way to undo it and this
possibility must be known to at least one witness. As long as somebody
else remembers the curse and the way to undo it, the curse is upheld.
When the last person who knows how to break the curse dies, the curse
is lifted. If the curse affects people directly, such as the eternal
slumber curse, they must save vs. spells to be able to leave the
cursed region.

**Magic kingdom** (5) enchants an entire region and allows you to
create illusions with semi-autonomous behaviour for two miles around
you: a forest full of grasping roots, a candy land, whatever you want.
The limitations on illusions continue to apply, however. Anybody
touching an illusion may save vs. spells in order to see through the
illusion. That is why the easiest illusions to maintain are scary
illusions or unreachable ones, of course. An illusion attacks like the
caster but always has an AC of 9.

<span class="footnotes">
¹ **Notes on personhood**: a person is alive, speaks a language, as a
head, two arms, two legs, and isn't a giant (usually that means up to
HD 4 including ogres but excluding minotaurs or trolls).
</span>
