## Taurnalin

![Taurnalin](Taurnalin.png)

Taurnalin is one of the elves with that special connection to the
World Tree, *Yggdrasil*. She has travelled from its roots to its
furthest branches, she has seen the Earth Dragon *Níðhöggr*, she has
seen the nine realms and she decided to live on the World Tree itself.
Find *The Horseshoe Woodhead*, the inn of seven treants. There, take
the trail to the *Shadow Web* where *Ilfang* the eight legged queen
mother rules and climb the gold stairs to reach the *Singing Woods*
where Taurnalin has built her tower above the *Cold Honey* spring. An
undine called *Patience* lives in this spring, the four dryads
*Patience*, *Sadness*, *Love* and *Jealousy* watch over the area, and
the oak treant *Three Hands of Caution* guards the entrance. There are
always twelve elven students in the tower with Taurnalin.

### The Book of Trees

**Heat metal** (1) heats metal armour within 30ft such that it deals
1d6 damage every round for 5 rounds starting *next* round. Jumping
into water reduces this to half. It takes more than 5 rounds to take
off armour, so that doesn't help.

**Magic bow and arrows** (1) summons a magic bow +1 and a quiver with
20 arrows. These last until all the arrows have been shot, the bow is
released, or 20min have passed. The bow cannot be passed to anybody
else.

**Shield wall** (1) summons the broken palisades and splintered
shields from the battlefields of Asgard to create a wooden wall 30ft
wide and 6ft tall. Breaking down this wall requires ten minutes with
axes or a battering ram, and even longer using fire. The wood is
otherwise permanent.

**Animate tree** (2) animates a tree within 30ft of you (HD 8 AC 2
2d6/2d6 F8 MV 6). The tree speaks the language of plants which the
caster doesn't automatically understand but the tree tends to attack
fire bearers, axe wielders, and any buildings in the vicinity.
Sometimes that is enough.

**Tree jump** (2) allows you to step into any tree and out of any
other tree within 100ft, up to ten times in ten minutes.

**...** (2)

**Awaken tree** (3) turns a tree into a treant (HD 8 AC 8 2d6/2d6 F8
MV 6; surprise foes 1–3/6). The treant speaks your language and is as
helpful as it can in the immediate situation. As soon as politely
possible it wanders off, wanting to finally see the world after all
these years.

**...** (3)

**...** (3)

**...** (4)

**...** (4)

**Gallow tree** (4) calls forth a permanent evil from Niflheim: a
large tree bursts from the ground and snatches up to fifteen people
within reach, trying to strangle them. When hit, victims must save
vs. death or be caught; and if they are caught, they must save vs. or
faint in the second round; and they are not cut down in the third
round, they die. The tree keeps using its arms to snatch and kill
until it has fifteen victims. These turn into loyal ghouls over night
and are dropped onto anybody approaching the tree (HD 15 AC 8
*special* F8 MV 0; ghouls: HD 2 AC 6 1d4/1d4/1d4 + *paralysis* F2
MV 9).

**...** (5)

**...** (5)
