## Ufala

![Ufala](Ufala.png)

Ufala spent decades studying the bears of Midgard and the bear
soldiers of Jotunheim, and learned many spells from their elders.
They say this is where she lost her eye.

Bears do not like company, and neither does Ufala.

### The Book of Ursomancy

**Bear strength** (1) grants a target strength 13 (+1) for 1h. At 5th
level, this increases to strength 15 (+2). At 9th level, this
increases to 17 (+3). If the target is already that strong, nothing is
gained.

**Long sleep** (1) sends one target within 30ft into magical slumber.
Unwilling targets must save vs. spells or succumb. This is a light
sleep, so any subsequent noise wakes the sleeper. You may specify when
the target wakes. Either way, the spell ends after a year and a day.
At 5th level, the spell no longer ends on its own. At 9th level, the
spell affects the area 60ft around the target as well, with the
exception of the caster, if so desired. Anybody entering the area must
save vs. spells or succumb. Once asleep, victims do not age, do not
hunger, do not thirst, but rest and heal as well as they can.

**Shadows** (1) reinforces the terrors of the night. When the sun has
set or underground, all shadows deepen, all light grows dim, the grows
cold and fear begins to spread. Units within 60ft must make a morale
check or retreat. Individuals must save vs. spells or stay put,
fearful of attracting the attention of whatever lurks in the darkness.
The sound of combat dispells the effect. Otherwise it holds for as
long as you concentrate on it. Your concentration holds as long as you
don't attack, cast a spell, or take damage.

**Bear shape** (2) turns you into a bear with big hairy arms, long
claws and a terrible jaw with big teeth. Deal damage like a bear:
1d6/1d6/2d6. If both claws hit, a *bear hug* deals an extra 2d8
damage. Your attack, armour class and hit points do not change. Your
strength bonus remains as is, including *bear strength*, if any.
Clothes and armour worn automatically warps and bends with you and
still fits perfectly. The spell lasts for 20min.

**...** (2)

**...** (2)

**Laser eyes** (3) grants your eyes the ability to shoot laser beams
for 20min: one target per round must save vs. rays or take 1d6 damage.
You can still act normally in addition to using your laser eyes.

**Shadow walk** (3) ...

**...** (3)

**Summon ursine soldier** (4) summons an unwilling armoured polar bear
to join a fight: HD 6 AC 5 1d6/1d6/2d6 MV 9; an extra 2d8 if both
claws hit.

**...** (4)

**...** (4)

**Flying bears** (5) summons a sloth of 1d6+2 confused and angry
flying bears: HD 8 AC 6 1d6/1d6/2d6 MV 12 fly; an extra 2d8 if both
claws hit.

**...** (5)
