## Wogan

![Wogan](Wogan.png)
Wogan is a priest of *Freya*, the goddess of autumn harvest and winter
wolves. He oversees a wooden temple on a hill surrounded by a palisade
with three scores of acolytes tending to the sick and the wounded. The
hill is covered in simple huts and long houses dug into the ground so
that all you see are their earthen roofs overgrown with grass.

Wherever Wogan goes he is accompanied by a loyal companion: a white
wolf nearly as big as pony. This is the winter wolf *Frostbite*, HD
5+1 AC 4 bite 1d10 (1–4/6) or breath of ice 2d6 for 5m (5–6/6) F6 MV
15; immune to cold; magical cold only deals half damage; magical fire
deals +1 per damage die; speaks.

### The Book of the Winter Wolf

**Wolf tongue** (1) allows you to talk to all sorts of wolves, dogs
and hyenas for an hour.

**Joyful dog** (1) gives anybody you touch a flash visions of puppies
and happy dogs running around. This vision lifts their spirits and
restores 1d6+1 hit points, up to their maximum.

**Locate creature** (1) gives you a supernatural sense of smell for an
hour. You can tell what kind of creatures walked over the ground or
touched the surface you're sniffing. You can track them. You recognise
anybody you've previously smelled with this supernatural sense. You
can track creatures if you keep your nose to the ground.

**Wolf howl** (2) is a supernatural howl that alerts all the wolves
within a mile or two. These wolves understand the short message you
have sent and act upon it, if they can. In forests, mountains, ruins,
savannas, or swamps 3d6 wolves appear in 10min and stay for up to an
hour, if you want (HD 2+1 AC 7 1d6 F1 MV 18).

**Night vision** (2) grants you and your pack (up to twenty people)
the ability to see 60ft in moonlight or starlight. The only place your
eyes still cannot penetrate is the absolute darkness underground.

**Silent paws** (2) grants you and your pack (up to twenty people) the
ability to run silently for 8h, if and only if you're not wearing
metal armour.

**Ice gate** (3) weakens the veil of the world separating Jötunheim
from your current realm anywhere within 20ft of you. You can fill this
space with a snow avalanche up to 5ft high. Anybody caught in the area
except for you must save vs. paralysis or be buried by the snow. One
buried, victims are immobilised and suffocate in 10min unless dug out
by others. For the next 10min, anybody in the target area can walk
over to Jötunheim, if they want to. Note that when in Jötunheim
without appropriate equipment and clothing, the cold kills you in 2h.
If you cast the spell in Jötunheim, you can cross over to Midgard, the
realm of humans. The gate leads to the patch of snow nearest to your
last location on Midgard. If you have never been to Midgard, it's a
random, snow-covered mountain.

**Werewolf** (3) turns you into a werewolf: immune to normal weapons.
You can fall from incredible heights without taking damage. Fire and
ice won't harm you. Only silver or magic weapons can hurt you – or
spells. Additionally, your natural AC goes down to 5 if it isn't
better, and you can bite for 1d10, if you want.

**...** (3)

**Call of the wolf** (4) summons 2d6 intelligent *shadow wolves* from
the void between the realms. These stay for 10min: HD 2+1 AC 7 1d6 F1
MV 18; surprise foes on 1-5 in 6; only harmed by magic or magic
weapons.

**Dreamtime** (4) gives you and your pack (up to twenty people) access
to the distant past, or maybe a past that never was, a time when
humanity and wolves learned to hunt together, like sisters and
brothers, one pack, one family. A place outside of time. This is where
the big hounds hunt, this is were the immortals tread - the ones that
simply never went back. They decided to remain here, where the
glaciers are thick and strong and the tundra stretches forever. You
can spend as many days and months and years here as you want. When you
are ready, you return to the exact same moment in time, but by moving
around in the Dreamtime, you also move your point of return. Thus, you
may travel in an instant as far as your legs can carry you.

**...** (4)

**...** (5)

**...** (5)
