## Xoralfona

![Xoralfona](Xoralfona.png)
Xoralfona is a famous bard.

### The Book of Songs

**Lies** (1) is a simple spell allowing you to tell any lie to a
single person you have eye contact with. Others do not fall for this
lie and can try to dissuade the victim from acting upon their belief
but this doesn't change the fact that they continue believing the lie.
Every morning, the victim must save vs. spells or continue believing
the lie for another day. No save when being told the lie in the first
place!

**Empathy** (1) allows you to know how one other person feels as soon
as they look into your eyes. This lasts for 20min. They feel as if you
were gazing into their soul, which in a way you are.

**Calm** (1) prevents 2d8 creatures you can see from attacking anybody
for the next twenty minutes unless they are defending themselves. Even
when attacked, the hold of the spell is not broken. As soon as the
attackers put their weapons away, victims of this spell stop fighting
at the end of the round. Victims are only granted a saving throw vs.
spells if they are the same level as you or higher.

**Mind Reading** (2) allows you to read one other person's mind as
soon as they look into your eyes. This lasts for 20min. Lies are
impossible. A victim may save vs. spells to realize what is going and
and to hide their thoughts. Nobody can hide the fact that they are
hiding their thoughts from you, however.

**...** (2)

**...** (2)

**Speak** (3) allows you to speak to any intelligent creature and
understand what it is saying. For the purposes of this spell, anything
with a name is assumed to be intelligent enough to speak.

**Exhaustion** (3) turn a whisper of yours into an enormous burden for
anybody intelligent that hears you speak. Without needing to
understand a word, people within 60ft drop to their knees, close their
eyes, drop their weapons, pray for deliverance or start crying. Every
round, victims must save vs. spells in order to recover their wits.
While in this state of utter exhaustion, victims defend themselves but
don't attack. If you are note brazen about it, you may pass amidst the
victims without alerting them to your presence. Your allies had better
cover their ears as you start whispering these words of despair.

**Speed** (3) enables a target to move twice as far, attack twice as
often, cast twice as many spells per round, for 10min, as long as you
keep singing softly to yourself.

**Commune** (4) gives you the voice of an angel with which to call on
any divine powers, no matter how desperate your situation. Divine help
might include your evacuation to the realm of the power you called
upon, the arrival of a divine agent like a valkyrie.

**...** (4)

**Vanishing** (4) creates a link between you and your current
location. With a simple thought you may instantly teleport yourself
and anything you are carrying back to this location. This link remains
until triggered or until replaced by another such link. It doesn't
matter where you are in the nine realms: this link brings you back.
For the purposes of this spell, assume that you can carry another
person, maybe two if they are as small as a child, like halflings or
dwarves.

**World Walk** (5) gives the music you play a special power: as you
walk and play, you can move yourself and anybody visible whom you want
to take along to a similar situation elsewhere. Surely somewhere in
the nine realms a similar situation is unfolding: describe a simple
change to the environment using your music, weaken the barriers
between the worlds and start walking. Thus, if you're surprised by an
enemy army as you're crossing a river, you could be transported to
Vanaheim, into a different ambush but on dry ground, or still standing
in a river but no longer under attack.

**...** (5)
