## Zorkan

![Zorkan](Zorkan.png)
To be done.

### The book of Geomancy


**Magic Message** (1) enchants a stone such that under the conditions
named it speaks a short message. The conditions named must be such
that the caster knows right then and there whether they are fulfilled
or not. Thus, "when Orland the Wise walks by" is perfectly reasonable
if the caster knows Orland even though the stone has no idea. On the
other hand, "when the assassin of King Gerold the Good walks by" won't
work unless the caster knows who it is.

**Flying Stones** (1) causes a rock lying on the ground to levitate.
You can move it around for 10min with the wave of a hand and with an
air punch it flies off up to 120ft and deals 2d6 damage on a target,
save vs. spells for half.

**Stone Fist** (1) raises your strength to 18 for 10min: +3 to melee
attacks, 1d6+3 damage, smash doors on a 1–5 in 6.

**Speak with Stones** (2) allows you to talk to rocks for 20min.
Sadly, their perspective is limited by their rock nature. They may
report things they heard or saw (if there was light), their memories
go back a long time, but they can't tell individuals apart and their
sense of time is confusing at best.

**Giant Rock Throwing** (2) allows you to pick up a large rock and
throw it like giants do: roll to-hit as you would, deal 3d6 on a hit,
no save.

**Golem Craft** (2) animates clay. This requires a cheap gem set into
the forehead of the little creature. A *clay* golem has HD 3 AC 6 1d10
MV 12. When you reach level 9, you can create a *stone* golem with HD
9 AC 1 3d6 MV 12. Such a creature needs no rest, no food, no water and
no friends. It does not sicken nor will it ever die unless destroyed
by violence. Golems do not speak and are a bit dim. They don't use
interesting tactics, they can't cast spells and they don't use ranged
weapons, but they will defend their creator at all costs, taking any
blows aimed at them, if possible. Sadly, while most are loyal servants
they still take a retainer slot. If their creator has more retainers
than allowed by their charisma, the golems may malfunction and gain
independence.

**Raise Stone** (2) allows you to slowly raise a boulder as big as a
carriage from the ground. Possible uses include blocking vehicles,
creating a rampart, building a bridge, or rolling downhill. It is
easily avoided by individuals under most circumstances.

**Stone Skin** (3) turns your body to some sort of weird stone
material: impervious to cold, fire, poison, and your AC goes down to.
Also, you can no longer swim and you still need to breathe, so good
luck with that.

**Giant Rock Throwing** (3) allows you to pick up large rocks and
throw them for 20min like giants do: roll to-hit as you would, deal
3d6 on a hit, no save.

**Rock Swim** (3) allows you to dive into the rock like a fish and
"swim" for 10min and to glide through the earth up to 1000ft. If the
spell ends while you're still gliding through the earth, you suffocate
and remain stuck forever.

**...** (4)

**...** (4)

**...** (4)

**...** (5)

**...** (5)
